---
title: "TWVtb3J5IEVpZ2h0"
date: "2024-03-18"
categories: 
  - "vchoob"
---

# TWVtb3J5IEVpZ2h0

```
Last login: Tue Nov  27 23:34:51 on ttys000
root@AICOMEVA ~ % cd /System/Library/PrivateFrameworks/CoreMemory.framework
root@AICOMEVA CoreMemory.framework % memload Resources/mem08.bin
Attempting to load binary file "mem08.bin"... succeeded with err=0.
Parsing output of binary file................ succeeded with err=0.
Transcribing interactions for human readable output...
```

There's nothing like a car accident to really wake someone up.

Eva only had a split-second to tell Stella to stop. By then, the chaos had begun.

The Jeep's wheels crossing a concealed spike strip. The sudden jolt of the wheel to the right. The sound of police sirens over creaking metal.

The two were thrown around violently while the vehicle began to spin and roll off the freeway, the chaos shattering windows and crunching metal, throwing them around like ragdolls tied to a rocket. The airbags didn't help either, slamming their heads into their seats and disorienting them, knocking Eva's sensors out of alignment.

When the dust settled, Eva fumbled for the seatbelt. Her primary focus was to help her creator, who had ceased moving. The belt gave way and violently dropped her onto the roof of the car, ripping her arm-mounted charger cable out of her arm and taking some of the synthetic skin with it.

With her sensors damaged and pain receptors at the max, Eva struggled to check on Stella. She could barely see from the disruption she had experienced earlier, but could tell the blood from Stella's skin quite easily.

She started to pull towards Stella when the sound of metal tearing rang out from behind her. Suddenly, hands grabbed her and yanked her out of the Jeep, throwing her out of the wreckage into the dirt.

"That's the robot."

She tried to get up, but failed. She tried to speak, but failed. She couldn't focus her eyes on the one who had pulled her out, but could make out something in their hand-

_Bang._

"Keep the machine down."

A sudden jolt of electricity from the taser hit her like a train. Internal diagnostics began to report errors across her systems as she cling to the real world for life. As the figure walked away, she tried her hardest to get up, to do something... to complete her mission.

"Take her."

Her eyes focused inconsistently, only giving her stills of what was happening. The police. The accident. Stella, being pulled out. Stella, being taken. Stella, not moving.

With her systems failing, her algorithms showing her the path to safety, she tried to get up. The sound of mechanical movement overpowered her senses, acting like frostbite. Still, she fought against everything to execute her directives.

"And destroy that one."

```
End of binary file.
root@AICOMEVA CoreMemory.framework % exit
Saving session...
...copying shared history...
...saving history...truncating history files...
...completed.

[Process completed]
```
