---
title: "XRCraft"
date: "2023-01-15"
categories: 
  - "gayming"
---

# XRCraft.

I launched my Minecraft server(s) on Christmas Eve 2022, as a treat for you all to enjoy. I'm sad to say that, due to some other obligations, lack of resources, and personal strains, I'm going to be shutting down most of it.

Not all, though - my survival server will still be up. I'll reset the world so everyone can start over (and you will still need to be in my Discord server to join it), but after that, the adventure is up to you. All I ask is that you be a human being, as I won't be on much to moderate. We won't have issues if you are.

Patreon perks somewhat remain - Supporter tier and higher Patrons still get a starter kit. Beyond that, though... not much to say other than non-Minecraft perks.

I'm not sure when exactly I'll start turning things off and removing files, but it will likely wait until after my break is over.

This mainly comes as I have turned my attention to another server network that I started working with way before my server appeared - XRCraft. Designed by the QuestCraft team to be the best VR Minecraft experience there is, it's recently been booming with new players after a big update to QuestCraft dropped and a video by a popular YouTuber was done on it.

I helped to build XRCraft by working on the lobbies and the backend, and actively administrate the servers now. I usually go into Survival in vanish mode to troll people - most say that it makes the experience much more fun for them.

And some even go as far as donating. We set up an XRCraft Patreon not too long ago to pay the people who helped work on it (including us administrators) - and with the player base we have, it's going super well. We can put the money towards personal things, but also better the server itself - and offer some handsome perks to incentivize users.

Some of these perks are what I offered on my servers - including (but not limited to) the highly-anticipated Archive gamemode. I'm so excited for a much larger player base to see what I've been working on for all of this time - although I might need to launch it later than expected to work out some bugs.

As sad as I am to see my Minecraft servers go, I know it's for the best. I didn't think through the infrastructure requirements, and should have expected that it was really only designed for a few friends to hang out on. I'm sorry to those who were expecting more but, hey, at least you'll still have good ol' Survival to play on.

If you're looking for a server with serious stuff - [check out XRCraft](https://discord.gg/dwffRxMkFr). We have tons of games to choose from, and even more are on the way! You can also donate to our entire team at [https://patreon.com/xrcraft](https://patreon.com/xrcraft) and feel good about helping support the future. Those perks are looking pretty good, too.

Anyway, stay sharp my friends. See you guys later.
